We have been on a journey for the past several weeks.
We started this in September, a series we called Long Journey Home.
And what we've been doing is revisiting the journey of Israel from their time of slavery in Egypt on their way to the promised land that God had given to them.
And looking at some of the key events in that journey and saying, are there parallels or are there things for us to learn about our own journey
in the Christian life.
The New Testament certainly makes those connections often.
You see Jesus, you see the apostles, oftentimes using images and metaphors out of Israel's time in the wilderness to teach things about our journey in life as well.
And today we're gonna come to what is a very fateful point in Israel's journey.
We're gonna come to a place called Kedish Barnea.
It was an oasis and it sat right on the border of the new homeland that God had promised to his people.
And with just one decision, I would have had to re-title this entire sermon series.
Instead of long journey home, it could have been short walk to the promised land.
To really get the story, we have to leave the book of Exodus.
A lot of things we've looked at up to this point have started in the book of Exodus.
The book of Exodus, if you want to trace Israel's journey, really only gets you up to Mount Sinai, where God gave the law to Moses.
The travel log really picks up again when you get to the book of numbers.
And numbers is actually not the original name for the book.
In fact, when you read the book, I think in all fairness, you go, it's actually a pretty bad name for the book.
For some reason, in English, long, long ago when scholars were giving it a name,
they focused on the account of two censuses that are taken in the book of numbers.
So if you read numbers, there are indeed these lengthy sections of who begat whom, begat whom, begat whom.
And so if you can't sleep at night sometime, go find one of those censuses and that should do it for you.
The ancient Jewish title is really better.
The ancient Jewish title is in the wilderness.
And that's a much better description of what the book of numbers is about.
It's recounting the story of Israel in the wilderness.
We also find some of this post-Sining Eye narrative in the book of Deuteronomy.
I talked about this a bit a couple weeks ago that Deuteronomy is, in essence, Moses Swansong.
When Moses wrote Deuteronomy, he knew that he would not be going with the children of Israel into the Promised Land.
He knew his own life was coming to an end.
And so that's kind of his final will and testament, if you will, to the children of Israel.
There's a whole new generation.
that is going to be making this entrance into the Promised Land, or rather than their forefathers.
And that's precisely because of this fateful incident at Kedish Barnia that we're going to look at today.
So you'll find the story in both Numbers 13 and in Deuteronomy 1.
Let me just read it to you, read it together out of Deuteronomy chapter 1, verses 19 through 45.
I realize it's a slightly longer passage, but I want you to see the whole story.
So here we go.
Then we set out from horrib and went through all that great and terrifying wilderness that you saw on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as the Lord our God commanded us, and we came to Kedish Bar-Nia.
And I said to you, I have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the Lord our God is giving us, see the Lord your God has set the land before you, go up, take possession as the Lord the God of your fathers has told you, do not fear or be dismayed.
This is Moses talking to this new generation.
Now he's talking about the forefathers.
Then all of you came near me and said, let us send men before us that they may explore the land for us and bring us word again of the way by which we must go up and the cities into which we shall come.
The things seemed good to me and I took 12 men from you, one man from each tribe and they turned and went up into the hill country and came to the valley of Eskel and spied it out.
And they took in their hands some of the fruit of the land and brought it down to us and brought to us word again and said, it is a good land that the Lord our God is giving us.
Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the Lord your God.
And you murmured in your tents and said, because the Lord hated us, He's brought us out of the land of Egypt to give us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us.
Where are we going up?
Our brothers have made our hearts melt, saying, the people are greater and taller than we.
The cities are great and fortified up to heaven.
Besides that, we have seen the sons of Anacom there.
Then I said to you, do not be in dread or afraid of them.
The Lord your God who goes before you will himself fight for you, just as he did for you in Egypt, before your eyes.
And in the wilderness where you've seen how the Lord your God carried you, as a man carries his son, all the way that you went
until you came to this place.
Yet in spite of this word, you did not believe the Lord your God who went before you in the way to seek you out of place to pit your tents.
In fire by night and in cloud by day, to show you by what way you should go.
He's talking about that fiery cloud we discussed a few weeks ago that was leading the people.
And the Lord heard your words and was angered, and he swore not one of these men of this evil generation
shall see the good land that I swore to give to your fathers, except Caleb, the son of Jafuna.
He shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land on which he has trodden, because he has wholly followed the Lord."
Even with me, the Lord was anger in your account and said, you also shall not go in there.
Joshua, the son of none, who stands before you, he shall enter, encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
And as for your little ones who you said would become a prey and your children, who today have no knowledge of good or evil, they shall go in there.
And to them I will give it.
And they shall possess it.
But as for you, turn and journey into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea.
Then you answered me.
We've sinned against the Lord.
We ourselves will go up and fight just to the Lord our God commands us.
And every one of you fastened on his weapons of war and thought it easy to go up into the hill country.
And the Lord said to me, say to them, do not go up or fight, for I am not in your midst lest you be defeated before your enemies.
So I spoke to you and you would not listen, but you rebelled against the command of the Lord and presumptuously went up into the hill country.
Then the Amorites who lived in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do and beat you down in seer as far as Horma.
And you returned and wept before the Lord.
But the Lord did not listen to your voice or give ear to you.
All right, so quick recap.
What just happened?
Well, they get to Kedish Barnia.
They're in this oasis.
They're on the border.
They're ready to go in.
This has been the whole point of the journey is to get here and to go into this promised land.
And Moses says we've arrived, let's go.
And the people come back and say, well, wouldn't it be a good idea before we just go rushing in there if we sent some spies in to kind of check things out?
And so Moses agrees, the spies are sent, and the spies come back and they've got some good news, and they've got some bad news.
The good news is they say this land is beautiful.
In fact, they actually bring samples of the fruit.
We find this account from numbers 13.
They came to the Valley of Escal and cut down from there a branch with a single cluster of grapes, and they carried it on a pole between two of them.
This is actually the first instance in the Bible, wherever record of Costco grapes.
Now, the bad news is, the spies come back with to see the bad news is that it looks great and all, but there's no way that we can win.
It looks nice, but we can't go there because
The people there are giants.
He says, the people are greater and taller than we.
And they said, besides that, we've actually seen the sons of Anakin there.
Numbers describes it like this.
We saw the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who came from the Nephilim.
And we seem to ourselves like grasshoppers.
And so we seem to them.
Now, you've got to understand a little bit of Old Testament history.
It goes even farther back here, and they talk about these Nephilim.
Technically, what the people saw were not the Nephilim, right?
Where I saw the referred to as the sons of Anacom.
But it says that these are the distant relatives of something called the Nephilim.
Go all the way back to Genesis chapter 6, verse 4, and you find this description.
The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man, and they bore children to them.
These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown.
Okay, one of the great mysteries of the Old Testament, who were those guys?
What does this mean about the sons of God coming into the daughters of men and having children?
Quite honestly, scholars don't really know what this is talking about.
Okay, was there some kind of human supernatural thing going on?
Was this just a way of describing these great powerful warriors?
We don't really know.
But the Nephilim had certainly taken on mythic proportions in the minds of the people.
You know, these were the giants.
And they're saying, man, when we came up against, they don't just describe them as the sons of Anak.
They said, no, man, these were the Nephilim.
You know, this we are up against people that we cannot possibly be.
These are the Paul Bunions.
We saw a whole bunch of Paul Bunions living in this land.
And they said not only that, but they live in fortified skyscrapers.
Their cities are great and they're fortified up to heaven.
You see how they're inflating everything.
Man, we're up against the Nephilim.
They've got cities that go all the way to heaven with their fortifications.
There is no way that we can take these people.
Now it's interesting if you compare this version of the story to the one laid out in Numbers.
In Deuteronomy, Moses says that it was the people who initiated the idea of sending in spies.
And then in Numbers, we read this account.
The Lord spoke to Moses saying, send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which I'm giving to the people.
So here it sounds like God initiated this.
I think the simplest way to reconcile the two is to say that the people suggested sending spies.
Moses consulted the Lord and the Lord said, okay, go ahead, send the spies.
Now had the spies limited themselves to the original mission objectives, which was to find the lay of the land, to help them create a battle plan, the mission would have been fine.
I don't think there's anything necessarily wrong that the spies went in to check out the land.
But the spies took it on themselves rather than just scoping things out for the battle plan, they decided to do a feasibility study.
And the answer, the majority came back with was, we're toast.
Two of the spies viewed the feasibility through the grid of, but God is with us.
That changes the equation significantly.
And last week, Pastor Lance was talking about the fallacy
that you some hear people say, God is never going to give you more than you can handle.
And I'm glad Lance brought up because he said, oh yes, he will.
God will give you more than you can handle, but he'll never give you more than you can handle with him.
And that's the mistake these spies had made.
They went in, they saw that they weren't inaccurate in aprising what was there.
These were big warriors.
These were strongly fortified cities.
We're going to talk about Jericho very soon in this series.
They were right.
They were up against something that in themselves they could not win.
God had given them more than they could handle.
What Joshua and Caleb understood was that God was not asking them to handle it on their own.
He was asking them to go and he was the one who was going with him.
The problem was in how the people responded to the report from the spies.
Let's pick it up from Deuteronomy chapter one.
You murmured in your tents and said, because the Lord hated us, He's brought us out of the land of Egypt to give us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us.
You ever get irrational like this?
That's why God saved us.
So He could wipe us out.
Okay, that's just stupid.
Okay, numbers, 14.
Then all the congregation raised a loud cry and the people wept that night.
All right, this is just heartbreaking.
They're all crying in their tents.
All of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron, the whole congregation said to them, would that we had died in the land of Egypt or would that we had died in this wilderness?
If you can follow in this series, you know this is their response to every challenge.
I wish we would have died.
Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword?
Our wives, our little ones will become a prey.
Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt?
And they said to one another, let's choose a new leader and go back to Egypt.
The spies weren't wrong about the size of the foes.
The Costco grapes were there, and who wouldn't want those?
But so were the grandkids of the Jolly Green Giant.
They were no match for what lay between them and those beautiful grapes.
And if there really was a God who loved them, this is their thinking, if there really was a God who loved them, he would certainly never put them in a situation like that.
And sure, God had said he would be with them, but that was easy for him to say.
He wouldn't be the one who was out dodging the arrows of giants and trying to scale, furcrous walls that reached all the way to the sky.
Years ago, Becky Pippert wrote a book called Out of the Salt Shaker.
And it was about sharing your faith.
And she talked about being in a situation where she felt this strong leading from God
that there was a person that she was supposed to speak to, you're supposed to share her faith with.
And she was scared to death.
She was pretty sure that it was not going to be received well.
She was pretty sure it was going to be a huge embarrassment to her.
And so she's having this internal debate with herself.
Kiflinn God saying, I want you to do this.
And she finally said, her response back to God was, very funny God, you're invisible, I'm not.
Think this guy in the children of Israel.
It's going, yeah, you're telling us to go in and do this.
Great.
That sounds good for you, God.
You're not going to be the guy on the ground there.
We are.
If the pain or the threat or the challenge in front seems too great, the answer must be that God hates us.
Or maybe there is no God.
Whatever the case, they decided it was time to choose a new leader.
time to go in a safer direction.
And even if that means going back to Egypt, think about that means.
After they've run for their lives, been delivered through the Red Sea.
Now in this moment, they're thinking, maybe we're better off being slaves back in Egypt.
Why don't we pick somebody to take us back there?
In fact, they don't just want new leadership.
They actually want to kill the ones who supposedly are speaking for God.
Look at this.
All the congregations said to stone them.
And by them, they mean Moses, Aaron, Joshua, and Caleb with stones.
absolute rejection of their leadership.
Let's kill you, find a new leader, and let's head back to Egypt.
The late Timothy Keller once preached a sermon titled, The Grace of Law.
And he suggested that this story reveals a fundamental problem of the human heart, this lack of trust.
And he suggests that one way the lack of trust displays itself is through irreligion, the rejection of God.
And maybe you've known someone like that, or maybe you've been that person yourself.
And some trial or challenge has come into life.
And the conclusion that's been drawn is that if God could allow me to go through something like this, either He cannot be trusted or He does not exist.
And if we conclude that God cannot be trusted, then we close the door on faith in our hearts
and we hold him in a distance.
Why would I let him get close to me if he's a God like that?
And we may admit that when all is said and done, okay, fine, he's the final judge, but we're going to stay as far away as possible until then.
Other people go the next step.
They attempt to stone God.
They want to kill him off.
Maybe you've known that person.
You mentioned God's name, and you see the anger flash in their eyes.
You see their jaw tighten, their fist clenches, because they're angry at God.
How could a God who said that he was good, who says he loves me, have allowed something like this to come into my life?
Kellow suggests that the other way people respond to their lack of trust, ironically, is by going 180 degrees the opposite direction.
They go all in on religion.
And by that, he meant that they plunged themselves into a system of rights and rules and rituals that are aimed at trying to earn God's blessing.
Okay, God, how do I make you happy with me?
How do I get you to give me good stuff?
What do I need to do?
And these are the people who work really hard.
They want to make sure God is happy that they can fulfill all of God's rules and then they hope
that maybe that will obligate God to give them what they want, which again means they just don't trust God.
That they need to find a way to control Him.
And maybe if I keep the rules well enough, I can get control of this situation.
And both people ultimately are self-centered in their approach to God.
Israel displayed both of those lack of trust strategies.
First off, they wanted to reject God and head back to Egypt.
And then when Moses declares that they're going to face God's judgment, they decide to try and escape the consequences by going to war on their own.
If you've been a parent or a coach or a teacher, maybe you've seen that play out with kids.
Some child's been told to do their chores and they go, no.
And then they find out there's gonna be consequences.
They're like, all right, all right, hey, listen, I'll do the chores.
And you go, yeah, you know what, there's a problem here.
The only reason you're willing to consider doing your chores is because you found out you're going to get in trouble.
That's not really trusting me.
That's not really respecting me or my role.
If you're seeing that behavior, then you know that kind of obedience is not genuine.
If the only time we're willing to obey us, we're being threatened, that's not real obedience.
In the case of Israel, this failure to trust becomes really the final straw.
God had made a promise to give them this homeland all the way back to their ancestor Abraham.
And these people have seen him perform miracle after miracle after miracle.
He has brought them to this point to Kedish Barnia by caring for them time after time.
When time after time, they've expressed the same kind of attitude, this lack of trust.
There's no water.
We're all going to die a thirst.
Why'd you bring us out here to die?
We're trapped by the Red Sea, the Egyptians are gonna kill us, why'd you bring us out here to die?
Everything they come up against, their first response is, God must be against us, he brought us here to die, and God has continuously, in grace, provided for them.
And yet here, once again, despite all of that history, they come to Kedish Barnia, they see something that looks too big for them to handle, and their response is, let's kill Moses and go the other way.
And Lord says, no, you're not gonna enter.
This is going to be reserved for a new generation.
And the result is that instead of a victory campaign, that entire generation except for Joshua and Caleb were sent on a literal dead end 40 year journey in the wilderness.
And only when the last one had died where they brought back to this same place and brought back to boldly go and conquer where their parents had only grumbled and doubted.
As I was studying this passage, again, it was Tim Keller who helped me to make a fresh connection between this story and the gospel.
The connection begins with the recognition that Moses was writing this Deuteronomy account 40 years after those fateful events at Kadesh Barnea.
We miss the time span sometimes, reading our Bibles.
You flip your page and you just jump 40 years.
or 400 years, or the case may be, we forget the time that's elapsed, all that's gone on.
But 40 years of elapsed, that old generation has died out as Moses is writing these words of Deuteronomy.
He's writing to the children of that generation.
In other words, the fact that this message was being written was evidence that God had still been faithful to his people, even though they had not been faithful to him.
And the question that Keller asked was, why?
The answer, you can trace all the way back to this in Deuteronomy chapter one.
Not one of these men's as evil generations will see the good land that I swore to give to your fathers.
There's the key.
There was a promise God had made to their fathers that God was going to keep.
And that commitment finds his origin all the way back with Abraham, the great, great, great, great, great, great granddaddy of the Hebrew people.
And you find that all the way back in Genesis 15, 18.
On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abraham.
And the covenant involved that I'm going to give you, I'm gonna make them a great nation, I'm gonna give them a great land.
And the covenant was ratified in a way that at first glance seems pretty weird to modern sensibilities.
If you go back and read this story and you don't understand the context, you're gonna say, that's probably the strangest ritual I have ever seen.
Abraham was told that he should cut several animals in half
and lay the halves on the ground opposite each other.
So you've got a half here, half there, half here, half there laid out on the ground.
And then something was going to happen with that.
Now Abraham probably understood right away what this was all about.
In ancient times, if a ruling king wanted to establish an irrevocable agreement with one of his subjects,
They would establish the rules, the agreement, and then they'd go through this ritual of dividing animals in half, and the king's subjects would then pass down this aisle in between halves.
Never the king, just the king's subjects.
And what the subjects are saying through this ritual is just saying, if we don't keep our end of the bargain, may what happened to these animals happen to us.
It's kind of a blood oath, if you will.
And so as Abraham begins to lay out these animal parts, he knows what's coming.
God has just said, I have sworn something, we are ending into a covenant here.
We're gonna go through the usual legal process to validate that covenant.
But then here's the unexpected part of Abraham's covenant.
Abraham was never asked to pass between the pieces.
That's what should have happened next.
Lord Jesus had lame out, okay Abraham,
Walk the aisle, promise me that you're going to keep your end of the deal.
Abraham is never asked to do that.
Instead, what's recorded is a mysterious fiery torch, kind of like that fiery cloud that was leading Israel in the wilderness.
It passed between the pieces.
In other words, a symbol of God himself.
Who was it that ratified the covenant?
It was God himself.
He never asked Abraham to do it.
It was God who ratified it.
In other words, God committed himself on pain of death to fulfill his promise.
There are other covenants that God made with Abraham's descendants, but each of them flows out of and is connected to this one.
It's what theologians often speak of when they talk about the old covenant.
The problem with the old covenant is that Abraham's children never did a good job at keeping their end of the bargain.
They repeatedly demonstrated their disobedience and their lack of trust in God, the lack of trust that is on full display here at Kedish Barnia.
So let me jump towards the New Testament.
Because once again, you find this kind of covenant language.
The occasion is a Passover meal.
That's the remembrance, the reenactment of that night that Israel was saved from death by the blood sacrifice of a lamb.
And this is not just any Passover.
It's the last supper that Jesus shares with his disciples prior to his crucifixion.
Now, they didn't know that's what was coming.
Jesus did.
And as part of that highly symbolic meal, Jesus takes some of the elements.
He takes the bread, he takes the cup, and he pronounces new meaning over them.
Here's what he says about the cup of wine.
He took a cup, and when he had given things, he gave it to them, and they drank of it.
And he said to them, this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.
Now, if you go all the way back to the establishment of God's covenant with his people, it was a covenant that God sealed himself.
God made himself the guarantee of the covenant.
Now, Kedish Barnea, it was a covenant where the failure rested with the people, and yet it was God himself
who had volunteered to pay the price if the covenant was broken.
I talked about the two ways people without trust can respond.
One is through irreligion, to reject God.
If you think about that table, the night that Jesus broke bread and gave that cup, seated at that table was one such man, Judas.
Judas had been with Jesus.
He had seen the things that Jesus had done.
He'd heard the things that Jesus had taught.
And yet somewhere in that journey, Judas wasn't getting what he wanted.
Or maybe he was just afraid of the enemies that he saw in the land.
Because he could see that the most powerful religious and political leaders of his people were against Jesus.
And that was probably not gonna end well for Jesus or the ones following him.
Somewhere in that process,
Judas decided, I'm out of here.
And not just out of here, I'm gonna become the betrayer.
And so Judas turned away, worse than turning away he turned against.
The other thing I suggested is religion, committing yourself to some spiritual system that's gonna try to obligate God to accept you.
There was another man who came to Jesus, not that night,
of that last supper.
But earlier, another man who came to Jesus is a man named Nicodemus.
And Nicodemus was an extremely religious man.
He was the religious of the religious by his status.
And he was curious about Jesus.
He could see that God's favor was on Jesus.
He could see the miracles he did.
He acknowledged Jesus as a great teacher.
And obviously, a devout man like Nicodemus would want a great teacher like Jesus to teach him
some new technique or some new knowledge or a better rule for life.
But before Nicodemus can even form his question, Jesus cuts him off with a stunning statement.
He says this, Jesus answered him, truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
And Nicodemus immediately sees the problem in this statement.
Because Jesus is just told him that what he needs is something that he can't do for himself.
He can't make himself be born.
How many of you took responsibility for your birth?
Nobody.
Jesus just said what you need to be right with God is something you cannot do for yourself.
You must be born again.
Israel there at Kiddish Barnia revealed this deep heart problem, their absolute inability to trust God.
They were not up to the task in their own strength to enter that promised land.
It took a whole new generation since there had to be a born again people to enter into that land.
In essence, Jesus says to Nicodemus, I know what you're about to ask me.
You're going to ask me what you can do in your own strength to gain eternal life.
What can you do to obligate God to let you into his heaven?
And so let me just stop you right there and tell you that you can't do it.
Your religiosity is never going to win the day.
The old way of trying to please God and earn his favor needs to die.
Jesus says there's a new way.
There's a new life.
A new generation, a regeneration that must happen, you must be born again.
Do you see what Jesus has done for us on the cross?
He's paid the blood price of the old covenant.
The terms of the old covenant were not kept.
It wasn't God's fault.
He's not the one that messed up.
We were.
Israel was, Israel didn't uphold their end of the bargain.
We haven't upheld our end of the bargain with God either.
Now, maybe some of us think we've done a little better job than others, but I guarantee none of us have got a clean slate.
And yet God, knowing from the outset that we would never be able to do our part, committed himself to do for us what we could not do for ourselves.
Here's how Peter said it.
He, speaking of Jesus, he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness by his wounds you have been healed.
We see the cross wasn't just about bringing a close to the old covenant, it was the inauguration of a new covenant.
Those who followed Jesus are people of a new generation.
generation not birthed by human procreation by work of God's Holy Spirit.
And as members of that new generation, we're invited by God into new life, a promise land, if you will, of hope and forgiveness in life.
And I think every one of us at some point either has or is or will be standing
at our own Kedish Barnia.
God brings us to a place where the challenges before us are greater than our resources.
And the question his spirit poses to us as it was to them is, will you trust me?
Even though you don't see how this can be done, will you trust me?
Maybe in your own journey, you've been pushing God away.
like that generation who ended up wandering in the wilderness.
Maybe your heart's been wandering away from God for a long time.
Maybe not just wandering away, maybe you've slammed the door and dropped the bar in place.
Maybe something happened in the past and you concluded that God could not be trusted.
He must hate you to let something like that happen.
And you've hated him right back.
I would ask you to consider the man on the cross.
The same God who persisted for 40 years to bring his people back to Kedish Barnia is willing to bring you back as well.
The man on the cross literally prayed words of love and forgiveness over the very people who hated him so much that they applauded his death.
You have not hated God too much for him to forgive you.
And don't worry if you can't find it in yourself to be the kind of person or have the kind of faith that you think a Christian should have.
I have talked to people like that and say, yeah, that sounds good, but I don't think I could ever have that kind of faith, as though it, again, depends on us.
You can't.
I don't have enough faith.
But what you can do is simply say to God, I want your gift in my life.
I submit myself to you.
I need you to regenerate my heart.
Please help me today to trust you.
Maybe God's asking you to do something really hard.
You follow him?
You've trusted him, but he's brought to a place where there is something in front of you that looks insurmountable.
The land is full of giants with fortified skyscrapers that reach up to heaven.
Maybe it's dealing with some kind of chronic illness or pain in your own life or maybe it's the challenge of caring for others.
You're a young parent and this thought of raising these little ones and all of their needs and all their demands and a world as crazy as this, that just seems like more than you can handle.
Or maybe it's an aging family member or a spouse
And you don't see how you can keep going.
You can keep meeting the challenges that that care is requiring of you.
Maybe it's a painful relationship that you don't know how to manage.
You keep trying to find the peace in it, but you can't find the peace.
That you and that person just cannot seem to get on the same page and you think this is hopeless.
There's no way that I can continue to face this, that I can find the courage to
Seek a reconciliation here.
Maybe it's an opportunity for ministry.
But the hurdles to make that a reality seem beyond your reach.
Welcome to my Mondays.
You can look at the needs of a church.
You can look at the needs of people.
You know the needs of friends.
And you can think, that is more than I can do.
I don't know where to start.
I don't know how to help.
I'll tell you this, one of the problems that Israel had there at Kedish Barnium was they decided that they were going to look at the entire battle before them as one big thing and base all their decisions on that, which isn't what God had asked them to do.
He had asked them to cross the river and face the first battle and to trust that he would be with them in that.
And I think all of us do that, right?
That sort of cataclysmic thinking, right?
Man, these are the children of the Nephilim and they got fortified cities that reach to the sky and we can inflate things to the point that we lose all hope.
Now, they still had big challenges, but the only thing they had to do today was make the decision to trust God to cross the river.
And soon enough, he was going to ask them to do a very challenging thing, which was to march around the walls of Jericho.
But that was gonna be a process one day at a time.
And so I'd encourage you, whatever that thing is that is just overwhelming you, because you've looked at the whole picture and said, this is just too much.
Okay, it's too much.
What has God asked you to do today?
And can you trust him for today?
Don't even worry about this week, okay?
You and I may or may not be here in a week.
We don't know that.
All God's asking is to trust him for what is right here today.
Can you do that?
Is he faithful enough?
Deep in our hearts, we may be thinking that God couldn't really love me and expect me to face a trial like this.
Maybe he'd be like to show him to Israel and you'd say, you go step farther, you'd say, God must hate me.
He must be just sitting up there in heaven and just enjoying watching me squirm.
Again, I would say, don't forget the man on the cross.
God is not distant from our pain.
He is not distant from our fear.
He chose to come and to live among us and he chose to die for us.
Scripture says he faced
all the temptations that we face.
He paid the price we could not pay for ourselves.
God is not distant from our pain or fear, and you are not distant from His heart.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, you know what the Kedesh Barneas are in each of our lives.
And Lord, I pray for my brothers and sisters this morning, the ones who are right now in a fight facing a challenge at a place where they feel like giving up hope because they don't see how there could ever be victory.
Father, I pray that you will grant them the courage and the strength and the provision of your power to help them deal with today.
Or may they see, may they know in their heart of hearts that they are loved by you.
Lord Jesus, may we not forget you, the man on the cross who loved us so much that you gave your life for us.
Lord, may we rest in that and grant us the courage
and the faith to trust you and not turn back, not run away, but to move forward knowing that we're not going there alone.
You are the one who's with us.
We pray these things in the powerful name of Jesus.
Amen.